README.rst, before:

gcovr
=====

generate GCC code coverage reports

website_ • documentation_ • bugtracker_ • `GitHub <repo_>`_

|travis-ci-badge| |appveyor-ci-badge| |pypi-badge|

Gcovr provides a utility for managing the use of the GNU gcov utility
and generating summarized code coverage results. This command is
inspired by the Python coverage.py package, which provides a similar
utility for Python.

The gcovr command can produce different kinds of coverage reports:

-  default: compact human-readable summaries
-  ``--xml``: machine readable XML reports in Cobertura format
-  ``--html``: HTML summaries
-  ``--html-details``: HTML report with annotated source files

Thus, gcovr can be viewed
as a command-line alternative to the lcov utility, which runs gcov
and generates an HTML-formatted report.

Example HTML summary:

.. image:: ./doc/screenshot-html.png

Example HTML details:

.. image:: ./doc/screenshot-html-details.png

.. _website:        http://gcovr.com/
.. _documentation:  http://gcovr.com/guide.html
.. _repo:       https://github.com/gcovr/gcovr/
.. _bugtracker: https://github.com/gcovr/gcovr/issues
.. |travis-ci-badge| image:: https://travis-ci.org/gcovr/gcovr.svg?branch=master
   :target: https://travis-ci.org/gcovr/gcovr
   :alt: Travis CI build status
.. |appveyor-ci-badge| image:: https://ci.appveyor.com/api/projects/status/6amtekih63rg9f2v/branch/master?svg=true
   :target: https://ci.appveyor.com/project/latk/gcovr-0p8sb/branch/master
   :alt: Appveyor CI build status
.. |pypi-badge| image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/gcovr.svg
   :target: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/gcovr
   :alt: install from PyPI

Installation
------------

Gcovr is available as a Python package that can be installed via pip_.

.. _pip: https://pip.pypa.io/en/stable

Install newest stable release from PyPI:

::

    pip install gcovr

Install development version from GitHub:

::

    pip install git+https://github.com/gcovr/gcovr.git

.. warning:: Even though gcovr could be used as a single python script file, future enhancements will break this capability.

Quickstart
----------

GCC can instrument the executables to emit coverage data.
You need to recompile your code with the following flags:

::

    -fprofile-arcs -ftest-coverage -g -O0

Next, run your test suite.
This will generate raw coverage files.

Finally, invoke gcovr.
This will print a tabular report on the console.

::

    gcovr -r .

You can also generate detailed HTML reports:

::

    gcovr -r . --html --html-details -o coverage.html

Gcovr will create one HTML report per source file next to the coverage.html summary.

You should run gcovr from the build directory.
The ``-r`` option should point to the root of your project.
This only matters if you have a separate build directory.

For complete documentation, read the `manual <documentation_>`_.

Contributing
------------

If you want to report a bug or contribute to gcovr development,
please read our contributing guidelines first:
`<https://github.com/gcovr/gcovr/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.rst>`_

License
-------

Copyright 2013-2018 the gcovr authors

Copyright 2013 Sandia Corporation.
Under the terms of Contract DE-AC04-94AL85000 with Sandia Corporation,
the U.S. Government retains certain rights in this software.

Gcovr is available under the 3-clause BSD License.
See LICENSE.txt for full details.
See AUTHORS.txt for the full list of contributors.

Gcovr development moved to this repository in September, 2013 from
Sandia National Laboratories.

Commit message:

docs: lift abstract from README

README.rst, after:

gcovr
=====

generate GCC code coverage reports

website_ • documentation_ • bugtracker_ • `GitHub <repo_>`_

|travis-ci-badge| |appveyor-ci-badge| |pypi-badge|

.. begin abstract

Gcovr provides a utility for managing the use of the GNU gcov_ utility
and generating summarized code coverage results. This command is
inspired by the Python coverage.py_ package, which provides a similar
utility for Python.

The ``gcovr`` command can produce different kinds of coverage reports:

-  default: compact human-readable summaries
-  ``--xml``: machine readable XML reports in Cobertura_ format
-  ``--html``: HTML summaries
-  ``--html-details``: HTML report with annotated source files

Thus, gcovr can be viewed
as a command-line alternative to the lcov_ utility, which runs gcov
and generates an HTML-formatted report.
The development of gcovr was motivated by the need for
text summaries and XML reports.

.. _gcov: http://gcc.gnu.org/onlinedocs/gcc/Gcov.html
.. _coverage.py: http://nedbatchelder.com/code/coverage/
.. _cobertura: http://cobertura.sourceforge.net/
.. _lcov: http://ltp.sourceforge.net/coverage/lcov.php

.. end abstract

Example HTML summary:

.. image:: ./doc/screenshot-html.png

Example HTML details:

.. image:: ./doc/screenshot-html-details.png

.. _website:        http://gcovr.com/
.. _documentation:  http://gcovr.com/guide.html
.. _repo:       https://github.com/gcovr/gcovr/
.. _bugtracker: https://github.com/gcovr/gcovr/issues
.. |travis-ci-badge| image:: https://travis-ci.org/gcovr/gcovr.svg?branch=master
   :target: https://travis-ci.org/gcovr/gcovr
   :alt: Travis CI build status
.. |appveyor-ci-badge| image:: https://ci.appveyor.com/api/projects/status/6amtekih63rg9f2v/branch/master?svg=true
   :target: https://ci.appveyor.com/project/latk/gcovr-0p8sb/branch/master
   :alt: Appveyor CI build status
.. |pypi-badge| image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/gcovr.svg
   :target: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/gcovr
   :alt: install from PyPI

Installation
------------

Gcovr is available as a Python package that can be installed via pip_.

.. _pip: https://pip.pypa.io/en/stable

Install newest stable release from PyPI:

::

    pip install gcovr

Install development version from GitHub:

::

    pip install git+https://github.com/gcovr/gcovr.git

.. warning:: Even though gcovr could be used as a single python script file, future enhancements will break this capability.

Quickstart
----------

GCC can instrument the executables to emit coverage data.
You need to recompile your code with the following flags:

::

    -fprofile-arcs -ftest-coverage -g -O0

Next, run your test suite.
This will generate raw coverage files.

Finally, invoke gcovr.
This will print a tabular report on the console.

::

    gcovr -r .

You can also generate detailed HTML reports:

::

    gcovr -r . --html --html-details -o coverage.html

Gcovr will create one HTML report per source file next to the coverage.html summary.

You should run gcovr from the build directory.
The ``-r`` option should point to the root of your project.
This only matters if you have a separate build directory.

For complete documentation, read the `manual <documentation_>`_.

Contributing
------------

If you want to report a bug or contribute to gcovr development,
please read our contributing guidelines first:
`<https://github.com/gcovr/gcovr/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.rst>`_

License
-------

Copyright 2013-2018 the gcovr authors

Copyright 2013 Sandia Corporation.
Under the terms of Contract DE-AC04-94AL85000 with Sandia Corporation,
the U.S. Government retains certain rights in this software.

Gcovr is available under the 3-clause BSD License.
See LICENSE.txt for full details.
See AUTHORS.txt for the full list of contributors.

Gcovr development moved to this repository in September, 2013 from
Sandia National Laboratories.
